You know when I create this course and all of my other courses I try not to make mistakes.
But of course I'm only human.
I am known to make mistakes.
So you might be looking at this slide and shaking your head in despair at what a bizarre typo I've made
here.
This must be a mistake.
I'm trying to write square or circle.
What in the world is a squiggle.
Well it turns out a squirrel is a real thing.
It's an actual legit object.
It is not a mistake.
And the goal of this video is to show you how to discover what a squirrel is.
And then of course you're going to create a squirrel in Python.
So here's what you want to do.
Go to this Web site.
Math World dot Wolf from dot com.
When you go to this Web site this is a great Web site for mathematics by the way you can find formulas
for lots and lots and lots and lots of mathematical objects including a lot of Trig and geometric objects.
OK.
So go to this Web site.
Math World dot Wolfram dot com and find the formula for a scorecard.
So you are I'm sure great at using the Internet.
So it won't be too hard to get to a formula for a squiggle but you will need to work with that formula
a little bit so you will need to use a pencil or a pen and a piece of paper.
Do a little bit of algebra and figure out how to convert that formula into a set of x y coordinate points
that you can then implement in Python and plot.
So that's really the main goal of this video is to produce a squiggle.
All right so here we are in a web browser at Wolfram math world the Web's most extensive mathematics
resource according to wolfram.
Hey guess what.
Not really sure how they verify this.
OK.
So I'm going to type in a score goal like this and we get the first result is circle.
So let's see here is a circle you can see it is not exactly a circle.
It is not exactly a square it's a circle.
And this is pretty interesting we see already right at the top.
We get this formula.
So the formula for a circle actually looks pretty similar to the formula for a circle and buttocks except
here this is X to the power of four plus y to the power of four equals a to the power of four and a
is you know a measure of the radius here.
So it looks a bit similar to a circle.
Now the thing is this is not a function that can be directly implemented in Python for making graphics.
And the reason is that you will need to isolate X and or Y in this.
So you're gonna need to do a little bit of paper and pencil work on your own to convert this into an
expression for X and an expression for Y.
And I'm not going to tell you how to do that although of course I will show you my solution.
Okay.
And there's a lot of other stuff here.
So the the curvature the arc length and all sorts of other interesting mathematical properties you can
read a lot more about it if you want to get deeper into the weeds.
But this is really the main formula that you need for this video before switching to Python.
I want to show you a little bit more about browsing around this Web site so you can see how we got here
how we got to a squiggle.
So there are pages for geometry and then sub pages for plain geometry.
Here's one for curves and plain curves.
So that's pretty interesting.
I'm going to click here.
This is a list of all the plain curves that they discuss on this Web site.
So we can for example go to the Soyuz is going to be five of these things called AIDS.
Here's an interesting one the Sicily of diet please if you study for example differential geometry.
This is one of the first puzzles that you will come across in differential geometry.
So this called the Sicily of diet please.
It's a kind of interesting looking curve here.
It's this red line here.
And we can find also the formula here.
So X and Y equals so this is even easier to implement in Python compared to the squiggle.
All right.
So we're not going to look at this.
We're not going to you know implement this here.
I just wanted to show you all of these kind of interesting things that you can explore on your own at
Wolfram math world.
And of course this is only one of many many Web sites that highlights mathematics.
All right.
So now I'm going to switch to Python and show you how I compute and implement a squiggle.
So let's see let me run this cell here.
So we get known pi and map plot lib.
So now what we get from that formula on the Web site was X to the power of four plus y to the power
of four equals a to the power of four.
Now to make things simple to start off with we can set a to be one.
Right.
Because we don't really care what the exact radius of this thing is.
And setting it to be one makes it convenient because one to the power of four is still just one.
So that makes our mathematics a little bit simpler.
Now there's a couple of different ways that you can go about figuring out how to extract x and y coordinates
here.
What I'm going to do is specify that actually let me put this in a comment just to make sure that's
you know it's clear that this is the mathematical formula.
This is not something that I actually want to run in Python.
So what I'm going to do is actually specify that x is just linearly spaced numbers from minus one to
plus one let's say in two thousand steps and now I'm going to specify which is not t why.
So why is going to be so what do we set y to if we want to isolate y.
Well first of all we can subtract X to the power of four from both sides of this equation.
So that's going to look like this.
So now we get Y to the power of four equals one minus X to the power of four and then to isolate y we
need to take the fourth root over here.
So that's going to be to the power of one fourth like this.
And so in fact.
Well now you know I started off just wanting to make this as as math but it ended up being Python code
anyway.
So I'll just move that over there.
Okay.
So I hope that makes sense.
So now we have our X and our y and now let's plot this and see how it looks.
So X come a Y and I'll set this to be a thick black line.
So line with equals three and let's set the axis to be square.
And we also don't even need the axis at all so I'm gonna turn it off.
So party that show.
Are you excited.
I'm pretty excited.
I have a little drum roll and so okay.
It looks like we have the sun.
You know this is like a we if the sun were in the shape of a squiggle I'm not sure what the name for
a 3D squiggle is but if the sun were a three dimensional squiggle and it's just rising above the horizon.
That's what this looks like to me.
What is actually the the problem here.
Well it isn't really a problem per say but the limitation what we're missing here is that there are
in fact two sets or a pair of solutions to this equation that it really is plus this thing and also
minus this thing.
So therefore what we need to do is actually plot this twice so I'm going to copy and paste and set this
to be the same value of x and then minus Y so I hope that makes sense.
The reason why this has to be plus and minus is for the same reason that if you say you know if you
want to solve for x in the equation x squared equals for the answer.
The solution is that X equals plus two and X equals minus two.
So that's essentially what I'm doing here.
So I'm just specifying that this is negative y as well.
And voila we get our squiggle so I hope to have convinced you that a squiggle is a real thing it's not
just some weird mistake that I make.
And then I felt like I needed to cover for myself by making up this whole new beast got us a squirrel.
It's a real thing.
And I also introduced you to the math world the Wolfram math World Web site.
If you were not already familiar with it then I encourage you to spend a few minutes exploring the Web
site.
It's a trove of interesting information and you've got some more practice solving for x and y using
paper and pencil algebra.